EDDIE...WHAT THE HELL
ARE YOU DOING HERE?
RIGHT. UM--
WHAT HAPPENED
TO CALIFORNIA?
WELL, IT'S STILL THERE.
YOU KNOW, I JUST KINDA
LEFT FOR A WHILE.
AND WHAT HAPPENED
TO SCHOOL?
AGAIN, STILL THERE.
STILL STANDING WITHOUT
ME AND EVERYTHING.
IT'S HARD TO
BELIEVE, I KNOW.
LOOK, I START
IN THE FALL.
EVERYTHING
WORKED OUT, JO.
EVERYTHING, JO.
I MEAN, I HAD THIS
INTERVIEW, RIGHT?
AND I DIDN'T STUTTER
OR STUMBLE OR THROW UP
OR ANYTHING,
AND THEY LOVED
MY WRITING,
WHICH IS JUST
TOTALLY, LIKE, SURREAL
BECAUSE NO ONE
HAS EVER LOVED
ANYTHING I'VE DONE.
EXCEPT FOR YOU.
WHICH IS WHY I'M HERE.
I WANTED TO SAY
THANK YOU.
BECAUSE YOU KNEW
I COULD DO IT,
AND I HAD NO IDEA.
YOU KNOW, JO, IT'S NOT
JUST BECAUSE I DIDN'T
THINK I COULD DO IT.
IT'S BECAUSE I DIDN'T
SEE THE WORLD THAT WAY.
YOU KNOW? IT'S A PLACE
WHERE PEOPLE GET SECOND
AND THIRD AND FOURTH
CHANCES TO MAKE
SOMETHING OF THEMSELVES.
OR AS
A PLACE WHERE...
YOU CAN BE A COWARD,
AND HURT SOMEONE. HEY.
BUT THEY STILL HAVE
THE DECENCY TO SEE
THE DECENCY IN YOU.
AND, JOEY,
YOU ARE THE MOST
DECENT PERSON I KNOW.
AND YOU HAVE
INCREDIBLE EYES
AND THE SEXIEST VOICE
AND A SMILE
THAT BREAKS MY HEART.
AND IF I'M GONNA
BE A WRITER,
I NEED SOMEONE
LIKE THAT AROUND.
I NEED YOU AROUND.
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
NO.
WELL, THAT'S NOT
THE ANSWER THAT I'M
LOOKING FOR, REALLY.
EDDIE, YOU WALKED AWAY.
I CAME BACK.
I MOVED ON.
OH.
OK.
IF THAT'S HOW
YOU FEEL, THEN...
OK, I UNDERSTAND.
I DO.
I GUESS I'LL BE
SEEING YOU, JOEY.
I'M SORRY.
BRUTAL. DO NOT
LET YOUR ENEMIES HAVE
ACCESS TO THIS CLOSET.
TELL ME
THIS WAS PURCHASED
FOR SOME SORT OF HALLOWEEN
CHURCH LADY COSTUME.
IT LOOKS
MUCH BETTER ON.
KEEP TELLING
YOURSELF THAT, SWEETIE.
YOU KNOW, PERHAPS
YOU'D LIKE TO FOCUS
ON THE TASK AT HAND
SO YOU CAN HURRY UP
AND GO AND LEAVE ME
TO MY WORK.
IF YOU'RE GONNA BE
CHAPERONING MY SEMI-FORMAL,
I NEED YOU TO
WEAR SOMETHING
THAT'S MODERATELY HIP
SO I DON'T
LOOK LIKE A FREAK
ASSOCIATING WITH YOU.
NOT LIKE SULTRY,
OLDER WOMAN SEXY.
(SCOFFS)
WHAT AM I SAYING?
I'D NEVER FIND
ANYTHING LIKE THAT
IN THIS CLOSET.
DID I ACTUALLY
AGREE TO THIS?
OH, THAT'S AUDREY'S.
I COULD BORROW IT.
NO WAY.
YOU NEED TO LOOK GOOD,
BUT NOT TOO GOOD.
THE MEN AT MILTON ARE
WEAK OF CONSTITUTION
AND HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE
TO THE WILES OF
THE OLDER WOMAN.
SO, SEEING AS
IT'S MY NIGHT,
AND MY FAIR-WEATHER,
JACK-OF-NO-TRADES,
BOYFRIEND PATRICK
IS GOING TO BE THERE,
AND HE HAS SOME SORT OF
UNHOLY ATTACHMENT TO YOU,
WE'RE GONNA KEEP
YOUR WILES COVERED.
UNDER...
THIS LOVELY
SUBDUED DRESS.
EW! WHAT
IS THIS, RAYON?
IT'S SILK.
BLEND.
IT'S PERFECT.
NOT TOO PERFECT.
HARLEY, LOOK,
I SWEAR TO KEEP MY
MRS. ROBINSON CLAWS
OFF YOUR BOYFRIEND.
BUT CAN YOU GO?
I HAVE A LOT
OF WORK TO DO.
YEAH, BUT DO YOU THINK
I SHOULD GO PASTIES
OR STRAPLESS?
NEITHER!
I'M CONSIDERING
INVESTING IN
A CHASTITY BELT
FOR YOU.
PUSHING YOUR
BUTTONS, POTTER.
OUT.
I'M OUT.
OH. HEH!
I LOOK RIDICULOUS.
NO, YOU DON'T.
YOU LOOK BEAUTIFUL
AND GLOWING.
AND DEFINITELY LIKE
YOU JUST PARTOOK
OF YOUR BOYFRIEND.
GREAT.
MM-HMM.
AND ALL THE MORE
BEAUTIFUL FOR IT.
YOU LINDLEY WOMEN
ARE SOMETHING ELSE.
YOU KNOW, GRAMS
BROKE UNCLE BILL'S HEART.
THAT MAN IS
A SHELL OF HIMSELF.
CAN'T EVEN WATCH
WHEEL OF FORTUNE  ANYMORE
BECAUSE VANNA WHITE REMINDS
HIM OF HIS DEVASTATION.
MY GRAMS,
THE BLACK WIDOW.
WHO KNEW?
(CHUCKLES)
ALL RIGHT.
I SHOULD GO.
NO, YOU SHOULDN'T.
NO.
YOU'RE THE ONE
WHO MADE ME
GET OUT OF BED.
I KNOW, BUT
I'M WOMAN ENOUGH TO ADMIT
WHEN I'VE MADE A MISTAKE.
YEAH, YOU SHOULD GO.
MM-HMM.
OH, GOD.
YOU GOTTA GO.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, UM...
LOOK, I'LL SEE
WHAT I CAN FIND OUT
ABOUT GRAMS.
OK.
I'LL CALL YOU
LATER.
OK.
BYE.
(CELL PHONE RINGS)
HELLO?
HI. IS THIS
POTTER'S HOUSE OF PAIN?
THIS IS MISTRESS
JOEY SPEAKING.
I'M GLAD I CAUGHT YOU.
I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT HAVE
GONE OUT OF BUSINESS.
I WAS EXPECTING YOU
LAST NIGHT.
YEAH, I, UM...
YOU KNOW, I FINISHED
UP AT THE BAR,
AND I WAS JUST
EXHAUSTED, AND...
NO ENERGY LEFT
FOR THE NAUGHTY
STOCKBROKERS.
THAT'S OK.
I UNDERSTAND.
I WAS KIND OF TUCKERED OUT
MYSELF LAST NIGHT.
LOOK, HERE'S
WHAT I'M THINKING.
LAST NIGHT, WE WERE
VERY OLD PEOPLE.
BUT TONIGHT, LET'S
AT LEAST PRETEND LIKE
WE'RE YOUNG PEOPLE.
GO OUT LATE,
STUMBLE HOME VERY LATE.
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
I HAVE PLANS.
NO.
YEAH. I PROMISED HARLEY
I'D DO HER A FAVOR.
WHAT EXACTLY
DOES ROSEMARY'S
BABY WANT?
SHE WANTS ME TO CHAPERONE
THE MILTON SEMI-FORMAL.
WOULD THAT
INVOLVE YOU
BEING IN A DRESS?
MM-HMM.
AND HEELS?
POSSIBLY.
WELL, OK.
CONSIDER MY ARM TWISTED.
I'LL BE THERE.
(LAUGHS) WHAT?
I MEAN, REALLY?
IT'S...IT'S
A FRIDAY NIGHT.
ARE YOU SURE?
I'M SURE AS RAIN.
GREAT. UM, MEET ME
HERE AT 6:00.
I'LL SEE YOU THERE.
SHOE SHINED
AND SUIT PRESSED.
PACEY WITTER.
DAWSON! HI!
WELCOME TO THE DREAM
MACHINE, MY FRIEND.
CAN YOU SMELL
THE MONEY GROWING?
UH, IF IT SMELLS
LIKE DRAKAR NOIR,
THEN YEAH, BIG TIME.
WHAT ARE YOU
DOING HERE?
WHAT'S THIS?
IT'S ALL THE MONEY
I SAVED WORKING
WITH TODD.
I NEED YOU
TO MAKE IT GROW.
YOU NEED TO SLOW DOWN
FOR JUST A SECOND--
TRANSFORM THAT INTO
A RESPECTABLE BUDGET
FOR AN INDIE FILM.
COMING OF AGE STORY.
NO SPECIAL EFFECTS,
ALTHOUGH I MIGHT NEED
A SLUMMING A-LIST ACTOR
LOOKING FOR SOME
INDUSTRY CRED.
YOU UP FOR IT?
WOULD YOU MIND
STEPPING INTO MY
OFFICE FOR ONE SEC?
SURE.
YOU KNOW THAT THING
THAT I TOLD YOU
I COULD DO FOR YA?
UH, YEAH.
I WAS ACTUALLY
KIND OF KIDDING.
WELL, BUT,
UH--(WHISTLES)
THAT'S WHAT YOU
DO FOR A LIVING, RIGHT?
IS INVEST MONEY
FOR OTHER PEOPLE?
SHH. SHH.
TECHNICALLY, YES.
(WHISPERS) Why
are we whispering?
BECAUSE IF THE GUYS
EVER HEARD ME
TURNING DOWN
INVESTMENT MONEY
BASED ON MORAL REASONS,
I WOULD BE
PROFESSIONALLY
CASTRATED.
WHAT MORAL REASONS?
I HAVEN'T EXACTLY
HAMMERED OUT
MY MIXING FRIENDS AND
BUSINESS POLICY YET.
PACE, I THINK WE'VE
BEEN THROUGH ENOUGH
THAT WE DON'T HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT IT GETTING AWKWARD.
WELL, YES,
WE'VE CERTAINLY
BEEN THROUGH AWKWARD,
BUT WE'VE
NEVER BEEN THROUGH
"I'M BROKE AND
IT'S ALL YOUR FAULT."
I'M NOT WORRIED.
I KNOW THIS WILL SOUND
DISGUSTINGLY L.A. OF ME,
BUT THIS WHOLE PROJECT
JUST HAS A REALLY GOOD VIBE.
BECAUSE I'M
YOUR FRIEND...
I'M NEVER GONNA TELL
ANYBODY THAT YOU JUST
USED THE WORD "VIBE".
I'M SERIOUS, MAN.
I JUST...
I MADE A DECISION
TO TRUST MY INSTINCTS,
AND EVER SINCE I DID,
EVERYTHING'S BEEN
FALLING INTO PLACE.
I WROTE 20 PAGES
LAST NIGHT.
I COULD BARELY
TYPE FAST ENOUGH
TO KEEP UP WITH THE IDEAS
THAT WERE COMING,
AND I CAN'T WAIT
TO GO HOME AND WRITE MORE.
I MEAN, HONESTLY,
THE ONLY THING
HOLDING ALL THIS UP
RIGHT NOW IS YOU.
GRAMS, GRAMS, GRAMS,
WE GOTTA CHAT.
WHY'D YOU
DROP THE HAMMER
ON UNCLE BILL?
THE MAN IS DISTRAUGHT.
WELL, APPARENTLY,
HE HAS SWORN OFF
WOMEN FOR LIFE.
OF COURSE, IF WE'RE
SPEAKING FRANKLY,
I DON'T KNOW HOW LONG
THAT COULD ACTUALLY BE.
JENNIFER.
YOU KNOW WHAT'S FUNNY,
THOUGH, IS THAT,
WELL, I'M EMBARKING ON
A SOMEWHAT FUNCTIONAL,
POSSIBLY EVEN
FULLY COMMITTED
RELATIONSHIP.
YOU, WHO ARE
2 GENERATIONS MY SENIOR,
ARE BEHAVING LIKE
A FICKLE TEENAGER.
YOU ARE BREAKING HEARTS
LEFT AND RIGHT.
I MOST CERTAINLY
AM NOT.
OK. OUTBURST.
PERHAPS I SHOULD
BE SLIPPING SOME
ST. JOHN'S WORT
INTO YOUR
MORNING METAMUCIL.
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
HEY.
HI. OH, MY LORD.
YOU ARE WAY TOO HOT
TO BE A CHAPERONE.
I THINK
I'M LIVING OUT
ONE OF MY TEENAGE
FANTASIES RIGHT NOW.
WELL, YOU LOOK
QUITE COMELY YOURSELF.
OH, THIS
OLD THING? NAH.
OK, NOW,
IN ORDER TO MAKE UP FOR
OUR LAST HIGH SCHOOL
DANCE EXPERIENCE,
IN WHICH I DID ACTUALLY
BUY YOU A CORSAGE,
BUT THEN I LET IT WILT
TO A LOVELY SHADE OF BROWN,
I BROUGHT YOU OPTIONS.
IN BOX "A"...
WE HAVE THE CORSAGE
FOR THE FUN-LOVING
AND WHIMSICAL JOEY--
A CARVED RADISH ON
A BED OF BABY CARROTS.
AND THEN, OPTION "B"...
THE CORSAGE
FOR THE CLASSIC AND
SOPHISTICATED JOEY--
ROSES ON A BED
OF BABY'S BREATH,
WHICH HAS A CREEPY NAME
BUT IS A CLASSIC FLOWER.
WELL, IN HONOR
OF THE YOUTH
WITH WHOM WE'LL BE
SHARING THE DANCE FLOOR,
I THINK I'M GONNA
GO WITH OPTION "A."
THE VEGGIES.
ALL RIGHT.
VEGGIES IT IS.
(CHUCKLES)
COOL.
AND, IN HONOR
OF THE CLASSY GUY
YOU ARE TONIGHT--
DON'T BE FOOLED.
IT'S JUST A COSTUME.
NO, REALLY.
YOU GET A ROSE.
IT'S PERFECT.
SHALL WE?
THIS'LL BE FUN.
YEAH. A FLASHBACK.
Joey: NICE NIGHT.
I JUST LOVE THE SMELL
OF SECRET ANTIPERSPIRANT
IN THE EVENING.
IT HAD TO BE SAID.
THIS WHOLE NIGHT
BITES ALREADY.
I HAVEN'T EVEN
GOTTEN TO THE PART
WHERE MY FRIENDS
SWARM AROUND ME
AND SHRIEK ABOUT
HOW MUCH THEY
LOVE MY DRESS.
HARLEY, YOU'RE
NOT THE FIRST WOMEN
IN THE HISTORY
OF SEMI-FORMALS
TO ACCOMPANY
A NON-DANCING DATE.
MR. WITTER OVER HERE
WAS FAMOUSLY
UNCOOPERATIVE
WHEN IT CAME TO
THE BOOTY SHAKE.
HEY, I DANCED.
UNDER DURESS.
AND HE BROKE UP WITH ME
AT OUR SENIOR PROM,
SO WE NEVER HAD
THE CHANCE TO DANCE
AT OUR OWN PROM.
OK. DIRTY LAUNDRY, JOE.
LET IT GO.
HAD TO BE SAID.
THIS GUY'S OBVIOUSLY
NOT OF SOUND MIND
TO HURT THE FEELINGS
OF A BABE LIKE YOU.
HARLEY.
Harley: I LOVE
YOUR DRESS!
CUTE!
THANKS.
A LITTLE TOO AGUILERA
FOR A SCHOOL EVENT,
BUT MAYBE IT'S JUST ME.
JUST KEEP IT DOWN,
ALL RIGHT?
YOUR FRIEND OVER THERE
MIGHT THINK I'M ATTACHED.
I HATE YOU.
PATRICK, PERHAPS
YOU'D LIKE TO
GO OVER TO
THE PUNCH BOWL
AND RETRIEVE
SOME DRINKS?
I THINK SHE
MIGHT WANNA CLAW
YOUR EYES OUT.
HAVE YOU EVER NOTICED
HOW MUCH THAT DRESS
BRINGS OUT YOUR EYES?
NO.
OH, WELL, IT DOES.
YOU LOOK
SO PRETTY TONIGHT,
AND I BET IF YOU AND I
WERE TO STEP OUT
ON THE DANCE FLOOR,
YOU WOULD BE,
BY FAR, THE MOST
BEAUTIFUL WOMAN ON IT.
DUH.
AHEM.
WHAT?
OH, BEVERAGES.
I WAS WONDERING WHY
I WENT OVER THERE.
YOU KNOW,
I SHOULD TELL YOU
THAT I HAPPEN TO BE
CLOSE, PERSONAL FRIENDS
WITH WOODY KULCHAK,
WHO HAS SNUCK IN A BOTTLE
OF PEACH SCHNAPPS TONIGHT.
SO, IF YOU'D
LIKE THIS DANCE
TO BE TRULY MAGICAL,
I COULD ARRANGE
FOR COCKTAILS FOR 2
UNDERNEATH THE BLEACHERS.
JUST GIVE ME THE WORD.
NO.
THINK ABOUT IT, BABE.
HEY, WHAT'S ALL THIS?
AH. RETURNING
TO MY YOUTH
FOR INSPIRATION.
HAVE YOU SEEN
MY HOOK  POSTER?
UM, NO,
NOT RECENTLY.
UH, MAYBE YOU COULD
CHECK THE ATTIC.
SO, NOW THAT
YOU ARE REVISITING 15,
DOES THAT MEAN
I HAVE TO START PAYING
YOU AN ALLOWANCE AGAIN?
I DON'T EVER RECALL YOU
GIVING ME AN ALLOWANCE.
WHAT ARE YOU
GONNA DO FOR MONEY?
IT'S FAIRLY INEXPENSIVE
TO LIVE AT HOME.
HENCE THE
LIVING AT HOME.
AH. MEANING
THAT YOU DON'T
PLAN TO CONTRIBUTE
TO THE
HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES.
WELL, I ABSOLUTELY CAN...
IF YOU WANT ME TO.
I MEAN, I CAN GET
A PART TIME JOB OR...
I'LL BABY-SIT LILY.
THAT WAY YOU DON'T HAVE TO
PAY SOMEBODY ELSE TO DO IT.
THAT'S NOT WHAT
I'M GETTING AT, DAWSON.
WHAT ARE YOU GETTING AT?
WHAT I'M WONDERING
IS HOW DO YOU INTEND
TO MAKE MONEY
IN THE LONG TERM?
WHAT'S YOUR PLAN?
ALL RIGHT.
UM...
THE PLAN IS
WRITE THIS MOVIE,
SHOOT IT, FINISH IT,
SEND IT OFF TO FESTIVALS.
HOPEFULLY IT'LL BE
GOOD ENOUGH TO GET
PICKED UP AND DISTRIBUTED
AND WILL MAKE ENOUGH MONEY
TO THEN FINANCE
MY NEXT PROJECT.
I MEAN WHAT'S YOUR
BACKUP PLAN?
IF DIRECTING
DOESN'T WORK.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN,
IF DIRECTING DOESN'T WORK?
MAKING A LIVING AS
A FILM DIRECTOR IS A
ONE IN A MILLION CHANCE.
NOW, I KNOW YOU DON'T
WANNA HEAR THIS, BUT...
YOU NEED TO
BE PRACTICAL.
THEN I GOT BUMPED UP
TO JUNIOR VARSITY
WHEN CY WATSON
TORE HIS ACHILLES.
(LAUGHS)
WELL, YOU PROBABLY
HEARD THAT I WAS
ALL-STATE LAST YEAR,
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW,
I MEAN, I'M A GOOD
OUTSIDE SHOOTER,
AND I CAN DUNK,
WHICH IS GOOD FOR
SOMEBODY MY AGE,
AND I'M A GOOD PASSER.
BUT, I MEAN, I'VE ALWAYS
BEEN REALLY GOOD.
I SCORE, LIKE,
30 POINTS A GAME.
WHAT KIND OF SCHOOL DANCE
ACTUALLY HAS A PUNCH BOWL?
A SCHMANCY PRIVATE
SCHOOL DANCE.
WELL, I HOPE FOR
THE SAKE OF ALL INVOLVED,
THAT SOME INTREPID STUDENT
HAS SPIKED THIS PUNCH,
OR ELSE IT KINDA LOSES OUT
ON ITS CLICHE VALUE.
HMM.
SPEAKING OF, WHEN DO
WE GET OUR PICTURE TAKEN
IN FRONT OF
THE TROPICAL MURAL?
THAT WOULD BE PROM.
RIGHT.
BLOCKED PROM OUT.
AS YOU SHOULD.
IT WASN'T EXACTLY
YOUR FINEST HOUR.
WELL, I WAS
TROUBLED BACK THEN.
YOU KNOW,
JAMES DEAN TYPE.
YOU WERE A DUMBASS.
WAS I AT LEAST
A MYSTERIOUS DUMBASS
WITH SMOLDERING
SEX APPEAL?
DUMBASS.
OK, FINE.
I CAN ACCEPT THAT.
'CAUSE NOW I'M
A HAPPY DUMBASS.
I GOT
A SECOND CHANCE.
PACE, WE SHOULD--
FINE. FINE.
Harley: PATRICK,
LET GO OF HIM!
WHY SHOULD I?
YOU GUYS WERE DANCING
PELVIS TO PELVIS
LIKE IT WAS
GOING OUT OF STYLE.
IT WAS MY ONLY RECOURSE
AFTER YOU FAILED ME
IN EVERY WAY!
JAMIE CAME TO MY AID!
JAMIE IS NOT
YOUR DATE! I AM!
IN NAME ONLY!
DID YOU DO
ONE DATE-LIKE THING
THE ENTIRE NIGHT?
THIS IS DATE-LIKE!
ARE YOU
GONNA DO SOMETHING?
OH, YEAH. OF COURSE.
OF COURSE.
IT'S JUST
SO FUNNY. OK. OK.
OK, OK, OK.
HEY, BREAK IT UP.
HEY, GUYS.
THAT'S HOW
YOU WIN MY HEART?
BY TRYING TO GIVE
THE GUY A WEDGIE?
IT'S CALLED
THE KRAV MAGA,
AND J.LO USED IT
IN ENOUGH.
HEY, IT'S PATTY
FROM THE BLOCK.
(CROWD LAUGHS)
YOU WALKED RIGHT
INTO THAT ONE, BUD.
YEAH, THAT WASN'T
EVEN FUNNY, BUDDY.
OK. COME ON.
YOUR GIRLFRIEND
LIKED IT.
OH, YEAH?!
ALL RIGHT!
LOOK AT ME!
I LOOK COMPLETELY HIDEOUS.
NO, YOU DON'T.
YOU LOOK LIKE
A ROCK STAR.
ARE YOU KIDDING?
YOU HAVE THE WHOLE
SMOKY EYE
LOOK GOING.
WHERE'S HE WHOSE NAME
SHALL NOT BE SPOKEN?
OH, HE'S IN
THE BOY'S BATHROOM
WITH PACEY,
GETTING CLEANED UP.
SORT OF.
DID HE ASK
ABOUT ME?
I WAS THERE BRIEFLY.
WAS HE WITH
OTHER GIRLS?
IT WAS THE
BOY'S BATHROOM.
WHICH IS WHERE
WE HAD OUR FIRST KISS.
HELLO?
I'M ALL FOR THE GRAND
ROMANTIC GESTURE,
BUT NEXT TIME,
INSTEAD OF FLAILING
AROUND WILDLY,
WHY DON'T YOU
JUST TELL HER
THAT YOU LIKE HER?
AND THEN, IF YOU
STILL FEEL THE NEED
FOR THROWING
A PUNCH AFTERWARDS,
PICK AN ENEMY
YOUR OWN SIZE.
LIKE AN OPOSSUM.
OH, YEAH. YEAH.
LIKE YOU'RE THE ROCK,
OR SOMETHING.
HEY, HOBBIT,
AT LEAST I CAN
GROW FACIAL HAIR.
WHAT DO
YOU CALL THIS?
LINT.
Harley: LOOK AT ME!
I'M CRYING
IN THE BATHROOM.
AND THUS CARRYING ON
AN AGE-OLD TRADITION
OF WOMEN CRYING
IN THE BATHROOM.
I DID IT IN HIGH SCHOOL.
LISTEN, JOEY, I DON'T
WANNA HURT YOUR FEELINGS,
BUT MY HIGH SCHOOL
EXPERIENCES SHOULDN'T
REALLY BE THE SAME AS YOURS,
OR I'M DOING SOMETHING
TERRIBLY, TERRIBLY WRONG.
SORRY, KIDDO.
BUT THAT'S JUST
HOW IT GOES WITH
THE HIGH SCHOOL DANCE.
YOU BUY THE DRESS,
YOU MESS WITH THE HAIR,
YOU POSE
FOR THE PICTURE,
YOU THINK YOUR DATE
IS FINALLY GONNA SAY
ALL THE THINGS
YOU'VE BEEN DYING
FOR HIM TO SAY,
AND NO.
INEVITABLY,
YOU END UP IN THE
GIRL'S BATHROOM CRYING.
LOOK, YOU LIKE
HARLEY, RIGHT?
SHE HAS HER
STRONG POINTS.
OK.
I MEAN, AS LONG AS
WE'RE TALKING MAN TO MAN,
YEAH, I LIKE HER.
A LOT.
WELL, GOOD.
CONGRATULATIONS, MAN.
'CAUSE TRUE FEELINGS
FOR A WOMAN,
THAT'S ABOUT
THE BEST EXPERIENCE
YOU'RE EVER GONNA HAVE.
I MEAN, IT'LL
MAKE YOU STRONG,
IT'LL MAKE YOU STUPID,
AND IT WILL DEFINITELY
TAKE YOU CLOSER TO BEING
THE MAN YOU WANT TO BE.
WHAT DO BOYS HAVE
TO SUFFER THROUGH?
THINKING THEY'RE GONNA
HAVE SEX AFTERWARDS
AND BEING
SORELY DISAPPOINTED.
WELL...
DON'T EVEN
THINK ABOUT IT.
I KNOW! RELAX.
DON'T BE AFRAID
TO BE NICE TO HER.
OH. SO, BY NICE
TO HER, YOU MEAN...
I MEAN TELL HER THAT
YOU LIKE HER SHOES.
OH, AND HER, UH--
TELL HER THAT
YOU LIKE HER,  IDIOT.
OW. HEY.
DON'T PUSH ME.
OH, YEAH?
LET'S SEE WHAT'S UP!
SO, YOU'VE HONESTLY
HAD A BAD TIME
AT EVERY DANCE
YOU'VE GONE TO?
YEAH.
EXCEPT THIS ONE.
THIS ONE WAS...
NICE.
WELL, I'M GLAD
SOMEONE HAD A GOOD TIME.
HELLO?
EVERYTHING OK?
YEAH, FINE.
YEAH, EVERYTHING'S
GOOD IN HERE.
JUST CHECKING.
YEAH, I DON'T KNOW
WHY I SHOULD BE TAKING
ADVICE FROM YOU.
LIKE YOU'RE SOME
KIND OF YODA WHEN
IT COMES TO THE CHICKS.
HAVE YOU SEEN MY DATE?
TELL ME MORE, SENSEI.
THAT WAS FOR YOU.
YES?
THE PHONE.
UM...DR. LOOMIS'
OFFICE
CALLING TO CONFIRM
YOUR APPOINTMENT
TOMORROW AT 12:30.
DR. LOOMIS ISN'T
YOUR REGULAR DOCTOR.
HOW COME I'VE NEVER
HEARD HIS NAME BEFORE?
ALL RIGHT. SOMETHING
IS GOING ON WITH YOU,
AND I DEMAND TO KNOW
WHAT IT IS.
JENNIFER, IF YOU
ARE LOOKING FOR
MYSTERY OR DRAMA,
YOU'D BEST TAKE
YOUR SEARCH ELSEWHERE.
I'M SORRY. I'M NOT
GOING TO LET YOU
KEEP THIS SECRET.
I'VE LIVED WITH YOU
FOR 5 YEARS,
AND EVERY TIME THAT
I'VE TRIED TO MOPE
MY WAY AROUND THE HOUSE,
YOU'VE INSISTED
THAT I COME CLEAN
FOR THE COMMON GOOD.
SO...
NOW IT'S YOUR TURN.
ALL RIGHT.
DR. LOOMIS
IS AN ONCOLOGIST.
I AM SEEING HER
BECAUSE THERE IS
A MALIGNANT TUMOR
IN MY BREAST.
I WILL BE STARTING
A ROUND OF RADIATION
THERAPY NEXT WEEK
BECAUSE THE GROWTH
HAS SPREAD
BEYOND THE POINT WHERE
SURGERY WOULD BE EFFECTIVE.
ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT
BREAST CANCER?
YES.
OH, MY GOD.
WOULD YOU BE A DEAR?
GO TURN THE OVEN DOWN.
I DON'T WANT
THE CRUST TO BURN.
JENNIFER, I TOLD YOU
WHAT IT IS.
NOW PLEASE, JUST GO.
VERY WELL.
I'LL DO IT MYSELF.
HEY.
OOH.
YEAH, I KNOW.
KIDS TODAY, HUH?
THAT DAMN RAP MUSIC.
AND THOSE BAGGY PANTS.
EVEN WITH THE DAMAGE
TO MY UNSUSPECTING
EARDRUM,
I DID THINK THAT
TONIGHT WAS QUITE NICE.
QUITE NICE.
YES. QUITE.
PERFECT. IT WAS...
IT'S BEEN A PERFECT NIGHT.
PACE?
I CAN'T DO THIS.
YOU CAN'T DO WHAT?
EVEN WHEN EVERYTHING
IS PERFECT,
BEING WITH YOU
DOESN'T FEEL RIGHT,
AND I'M SORRY.
LOOK, EVERYTHING TONIGHT--
I MEAN, TONIGHT
WAS LOVELY AND FUN AND...
YOU'VE BECOME THIS...
I MEAN, THIS AMAZING MAN,
BUT IT DOESN'T...
I'M SORRY. I DON'T...
I DON'T FEEL IT.
AND I CAN'T DO THIS
WITH YOU.
OK, JOEY, JUST
SLOW DOWN FOR A SECOND.
NO, PACE, IT'S...
IT'S TRUE AND...
I'M SORRY.
SO WHAT,
YOU'RE SCARED.
RIGHT? YOU'RE SCARED.
AND SO AM I,
BELIEVE ME.
AND I'M SCARED BECAUSE
I DON'T KNOW WHERE
THIS THING IS GOING, JO.
AS IN, I THINK
IT COULD GO ANYWHERE.
THIS COULD BE IT.
IT WON'T BE.
HOW COULD YOU
POSSIBLY KNOW THAT?
I MEAN, REALLY. LAST
WEEK, YOU'RE ON BOARD,
AND NOW YOU'RE JUST
PSYCHICALLY TELLING ME
THAT THIS COULD NEVER
BE SOMETHING GREAT.
YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY
KNOW THAT,
BECAUSE WE DON'T
KNOW THAT, JOEY.
AND I'M SORRY.
I KNOW THAT THIS
IS SUCH A HORRIBLE
THING TO SAY.
BUT HOW?
HOW COULD YOU KNOW?
AND WHEN DID YOU
MAKE THIS DECISION,
TONIGHT?
I MEAN, I THOUGHT
TONIGHT WAS GOING GREAT.
IT WAS.
IT WAS GREAT.
SO THEN WHEN?
AND DON'T TELL ME
THAT YOU'RE NOT SCARED,
BECAUSE I KNOW
THAT YOU ARE.
I MEAN, I'VE KNOWN YOU
TOO LONG
AND SEEN YOU PUSH AWAY
TOO MANY GOOD THINGS
TO LET YOU
PUSH ME AWAY RIGHT NOW.
MY WHOLE LIFE, JOEY,
MY WHOLE LIFE
YOU HAVE BEEN
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL THING
IN MY ORBIT.
AND MY FEELINGS FOR YOU
WERE WHAT PROVED TO ME
THAT I COULD BE GREAT.
AND THOSE FEELINGS
WERE STRONGER
AND WERE WISER
AND MORE PERSISTENT
AND MORE RESILIENT
THAN ANYTHING ELSE
ABOUT ME.
PACEY, STOP.
JO--
PACEY!
WHEN I WAS AFRAID
OF EVERYTHING,
I WAS NEVER AFRAID
TO LOVE YOU,
AND I COULD LOVE YOU
AGAIN. I COULD.
PACEY, NO. PACEY, STOP!
EDDIE CAME BACK.
I'M SORRY.
HE CAME BACK LAST NIGHT.
HE CAME TO THE BAR--
OH.
OK.
LOOK, I'M SORRY--
HEY. I BROUGHT YOU
SOME COFFEE
SINCE YOU'RE BURNING
THE MIDNIGHT OIL,
AND A TURKEY SANDWICH.
PROTEIN.
THANKS, MOM.
AH, YOUR EARLY WORK.
YOU REALLY ARE
FEELING NOSTALGIC.
AH, WELL...
I DON'T KNOW.
IN THOSE DAYS
IT WASN'T JUST ME ALONE
IN FRONT OF
A COMPUTER SCREEN, YOU KNOW?
I MEAN, I HAD PEOPLE
PITCHING IN.
I HAD A WHOLE
SUPPORT SYSTEM.
(TURNS OFF TELEVISION)
SO HOW IS
YOUR SCRIPT COMING?
GREAT.
GREAT. IT'S, UH...
WELL, ACTUALLY,
YOU KNOW WHAT?
IT'S NOT SO GREAT
RIGHT NOW.
LOOK, MOM, THERE'S SOMETHING
I'VE GOT TO TELL YOU.
UM...
I DON'T HAVE
A BACK-UP PLAN...
AND I WON'T EVER HAVE ONE.
I'M GOING TO BE A DIRECTOR,
AND I DON'T WANT TO HAVE
ANYTHING TO FALL BACK ON,
BECAUSE THERE'S NOTHING ELSE
THAT I WANT TO DO.
IT'S NOT ALWAYS ABOUT
WHAT YOU WANT.
DAWSON, YOU GROW UP,
AND LIFE ISN'T WHAT
YOU THOUGHT IT WAS
GOING TO BE LIKE
WHEN YOU WERE A KID.
I AGREE.
AND YOU'RE RIGHT,
BEING A DIRECTOR
IS A CHILD'S DREAM,
AND THAT'S HOW I KNOW
THAT IT'S REAL.
BECAUSE IT'S WHAT
I WANTED TO DO
BEFORE I KNEW HOW
TO BE SCARED OR CYNICAL.
OK, HONEY,
WHAT ABOUT COLLEGE?
AT LEAST GO BACK.
FINISH FILM SCHOOL
TO MAKE SURE THAT
YOU'RE COMMITTED
TO THIS THING.
MOM, PLEASE.
IF A YEAR OF FETCHING LATTES
AND CAJOLING ACTRESSES
OUT OF THEIR TRAILER
TO ACT IN FRONT
OF A GREEN SCREEN
DIDN'T KILL MY DESIRE
TO MAKE MOVIES,
NOTHING WILL.
I KNOW THAT.
AND I DON'T NEED TO SPEND
$60,000 OF THIS FAMILY'S MONEY
TO FIGURE THAT OUT.
I MEAN, MAKING MOVIES IS...
IT'S MY LIFE.
AND I NEED YOU TO BELIEVE
THAT I'M THAT
ONE IN A MILLION
WHO'S GOING TO MAKE IT,
BECAUSE I DO.
HONEY, DID I
EVER TELL YOU THE STORY
ABOUT THE TIME
YOUR FATHER DECIDED
TO MAKE CHEWING GUM
ON OUR KITCHEN STOVE?
PLEASE TELL ME
YOU'RE KIDDING.
MM-MMM. NO. HE WAS
GOING TO SELL IT
TO LOCAL GIFT SHOPS.
AND I WON'T GET INTO
ANYTHING BEYOND THE FACT
THAT IT WAS
A STICKY MESS
AND WE HAD TO SHAVE
PART OF YOUR HEAD
ONCE DAD DECIDED
TO MAKE YOU SOUS-CHEF
OF THE STRAWBERRY
DIVISION.
YOU SHAVED MY HEAD?
PART OF YOUR HEAD.
YOU WERE 5.
IT WAS THE EIGHTIES.
WE TOLD YOU IT WAS PUNK.
THAT'S GREAT.
ANYWAY, I'M JUST...
WELL, I'M
BRINGING IT UP BECAUSE
YOUR DAD HAD A LOT
OF HAREBRAINED SCHEMES,
AND I WAS ALWAYS CONVINCED
THAT THE GUM ONE
WAS BASED ON CHARLIE
AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY,
WHICH WAS HIS FAVORITE BOOK
AS A CHILD.
BUT HE WOULDN'T
ADMIT IT.
OK, THIS ONE'S
A LITTLE MORE SUBTLE
THAN SOME OF
YOUR OTHER LIFE LESSONS.
DAWSON...
YOUR DAD'S
PIPE DREAMING,
IT DROVE ME
RIGHT UP THE WALL.
BUT IT WAS ALSO
ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT MADE ME
FALL IN LOVE WITH HIM.
BECAUSE, LIKE YOU,
HE HAD THE COURAGE
TO BELIEVE
THAT LIFE COULD BE
AS GREAT AS YOU THINK
IT COULD BE
WHEN YOU'RE A KID.
SO YOU GET
WHAT I'M SAYING?
WOULD YOU LIKE ME
TO WATCH LILY FOR YOU?
YEAH.
AND THEN GO
JUMP OFF THE CLIFF.
ONLY METAPHORICALLY,
OF COURSE.
MOM...
I'M YOUR MOTHER.
I CAN'T HELP IT.
OOH.
APPARENTLY...
YOU LIKED
MY LITTLE METAPHOR
ABOUT THINGS
THAT FADE.
ACTUALLY, I JUST THOUGHT
IT WAS COOL
THAT THERE WERE
PEOPLE IN THIS WORLD
WHO WOULD GIVE YOU
THE PRIZE OUT OF
THEIR CRACKER JACK BOX.
IT'S BECAUSE
I LOVE YOU, HONEY.
HMM.
OK. THERE IS NOTHING WRONG
WITH BEING SCARED.
IT'S PERFECTLY NATURAL.
BEING SCARED
DOES NO ONE ANY GOOD.
OK.
SO WHAT DO I DO
TO HELP?
WELL, YOU CAN
FETCH ME THE BUTTER
FROM THE TOP SHELF
OF THE REFRIGERATOR.
I WASN'T REFERRING, UM...
TO THIS CULINARY EXERCISE
IN DISPLACED ENERGIES.
I MEAN YOU.
I MEAN, WHAT DO I DO
TO HELP YOU?
YOU'RE GOING TO NEED SOMEBODY
TO DRIVE YOU TO TREATMENTS,
AND I CAN DO THAT.
I CAN COOK MEALS
IN ADVANCE,
TIVO 60 MINUTES,
AND WHEN YOU GET BORED,
JACK AND I
ARE GOING TO ACT OUT SCENES
FROM MOULIN ROUGE
FOR YOU.
JACK CAN HAVE NOTHING
TO DO WITH THIS,
NOR CAN YOU, JENNIFER.
THIS IS MY OWN
PERSONAL BUSINESS,
AND I CAN
TAKE CARE OF IT MYSELF.
WELL, WHAT ABOUT ME?
I MEAN, WHO'S GOING
TO TAKE CARE OF ME?
I MEAN, YOU'RE
MY GRANDMOTHER,
THE PERSON I LOVE MOST
IN THE WORLD,
AND YOU'RE SICK,
AND I'M THE ONE WHO'S SCARED.
LOOK, JENNIFER,
THIS IS NOT
A DEATH SENTENCE.
NOW...
MANY PEOPLE MY AGE,
THEY HAVE ONE ROUND
OF RADIATION THERAPY
AND THEY LIVE
LONG HAPPY LIVES
IN REMISSION.
OK, SO LET'S TALK ABOUT THAT.
HMM?
OH, JENNIFER...
BUT CAN WE AT LEAST
JUST START TALKING?
JENNIFER...
I AM NOT READY
TO DIE YET.
COME HERE.
DO YOU HEAR ME?
HMM?
DO YOU?
AND AS MY FIST
WAS ROCKETING
TOWARDS HIS NECK,
I WAS JUST, LIKE,
YOU KNOW, PATRICK,
YOU'RE A LOVER,
NOT A FIGHTER.
THAT LAST PART
WAS PRETTY OBVIOUS.
AND AS FOR
THE FIRST PART...
YOU MEAN THE LOVER PART?
NOT A CHANCE.
OH. WELL, I DIDN'T
MEAN IT LITERALLY.
WELL, YEAH, I DID, BUT...
YOU KNOW,
THAT'S NOT THE REASON
I'M AT THE DANCE WITH YOU.
I'M AT THE DANCE WITH YOU
BECAUSE IF I WEREN'T,
YOU'D BE WITH
SOME OTHER GUY,
AND THAT WOULD KILL ME.
BECAUSE YOU LIKE ME?
YEAH.
NICE SPEECH.
PACEY TEACH YOU THAT?
YEAH. YEAH, THAT AND HOW
TO UNHOOK A BRA
WITH ONE HAND.
TRY IT AND YOU'LL
HAVE ONE HAND LEFT.
IF MEMORY SERVES,
I OWE YOU A DANCE,
MS. POTTER.
YOU'RE PROBABLY
WONDERING
WHAT THE HELL
I'M DOING HERE.
(CHUCKLES)
HI.